---
content_type: page
description: This syllabus section provides the course description and information
  on meeting times, prerequisites, the textbook, grading, and collaboration policy.
hide_download: true
hide_download_original: null
learning_resource_types: []
ocw_type: CourseSection
title: Syllabus
uid: 435c270b-888e-ae1e-b0ed-a64cf6ecadef
---

Course Meeting Times
--------------------

Lectures: 2 sessions / week, 1 hour / session

Recitations: 2 sessions / week, 1 hour / session

Description
-----------

6.003 covers the fundamentals of signal and system analysis, focusing on representations of discrete-time and continuous-time signals (singularity functions, complex exponentials and geometrics, Fourier representations, Laplace and Z transforms, sampling) and representations of linear, time-invariant systems (difference and differential equations, block diagrams, system functions, poles and zeros, convolution, impulse and step responses, frequency responses). Applications are drawn broadly from engineering and physics, including feedback and control, communications, and signal processing.

Prerequisites
-------------

6.02 Introduction to EECS II

Textbook
--------

Oppenheim, Alan, and Alan Willsky. _Signals and Systems_. 2nd ed. Prentice Hall, 1996. ISBN: 9780138147570.

Grading
-------

Your grade in 6.003 will be the weighted average of the following component grades:

{{< tableopen >}}
{{< theadopen >}}
{{< tropen >}}
{{< thopen >}}
ACTIVITIES
{{< thclose >}}
{{< thopen >}}
PERCENTAGES
{{< thclose >}}

{{< trclose >}}

{{< theadclose >}}
{{< tropen >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
Midterm 1
{{< tdclose >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
10%
{{< tdclose >}}

{{< trclose >}}
{{< tropen >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
Midterm 2
{{< tdclose >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
15%
{{< tdclose >}}

{{< trclose >}}
{{< tropen >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
Midterm 3
{{< tdclose >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
20%
{{< tdclose >}}

{{< trclose >}}
{{< tropen >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
Final exam
{{< tdclose >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
40%
{{< tdclose >}}

{{< trclose >}}
{{< tropen >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
Homework, participation, other factors
{{< tdclose >}}
{{< tdopen >}}
15%
{{< tdclose >}}

{{< trclose >}}

{{< tableclose >}}

Collaboration Policy
--------------------

We encourage students to discuss assignments in this subject with other students and with the teaching staff to better understand the concepts. However, when you submit an assignment under your name, we assume that you are certifying that the details are entirely your own work and that you played at least a substantial role in the conception stage.

You should not use results from other students (from this year or from previous years) in preparing your solutions. You should not take credit for computer code or graphics that were generated by other students. Students should never share their solutions with other students.

Any student caught plagiarizing will receive a grade of zero on the assignment. All incidents of plagiarism will be reported to the Committee on Discipline (COD). More information about what constitutes plagiarism can be found at the [MIT Academic Integrity](http://web.mit.edu/academicintegrity/) site.